This video will go over the steps necessary to create our own custom project template.
The idea here is that we can create our own project templates and when we create our projects we can
use this template as the starting point.
That way we'll have a proper main that CBP file will have all our switches set.
We'll have our environments set.
All right.
So let's get started.
First thing I need to do is open up a workspace I've got a workspace already open.
I've already created I should say I'm going to open it now I'm going to say open workspace.
If you don't have a workspace at all you could just say file new workspace.
So open the workspace that I've got it's on my desktop and it's called C-p workspace so open that and
the first thing you want to do is you want to add a project she want to right click on your workspace
in say New new project.
Now here you've got the new project wizard and you've got different examples you can create GUI applications
console applications you can have user templates and so forth.
What we want to do is we want to use the simple executive Bill G plus plus template that comes with
code like.
And we want to tweak that our own way into what we want to do is to create our own template and here
that we can choose.
And we could put it in Consolo we can put it here and use for templates we could put it wherever we
like.
But before we do that we need to create a project so let's do that.
I'm going to sit a console and let's use the G plus plus simple executive Konsole template a press next
the project name it does it really matter.
I'll just say sample since we're going to save it as a template anyway and I'll select next we want
to make sure our compilers is set up correctly.
Here I'm using Mingy W and the gdb debugger.
So like finish and that creates our project.
You can see here's the source file.
Here's the file which is really C-code and that's C++ code.
But we'll fix all this in a minute.
So first thing we want to do is we want to get rid of this and let's write simple C++ program to simple
when we've been writing all along so we'll say include IO stream we'll include IO stream since we could
probably use it in most of the projects that we write.
Then we have our main function and again its int main open close friends and then an open Kerley which
will be automatically closed by code like here we can indented by just pressing tab and we could say
SDD to Kolins C out and then the insertion operator followed by the string Hello world.
And you can type anything you like here for Hello world.
And we'll do also as tiddy to Coleen's and Del.
This prince a new line that way when we display hello world the cursor will go to the next line on the
console.
And then finally we'll just return 0 like we always do.
That's it.
I'm going to save this so that press control us here so I've just done that and saved it.
Now we'll set some compiler settings that will do this the one time that will save it as a project template.
So let's go to the sample project.
The actual project name and we're right click go down to settings global settings and we want to make
sure we've got these two compiler options set so we get to right click on those three little dots here
on the button you want to select that button and click and we want to make sure that we've got are all
warnings enabled on and our C++ 14 standard on press.
OK.
Then you want to come towards his code completion and select that and select enable C++ 14 standard
apply.
And that's it.
Now what we can do is we can come to the project again right click and say save as template so select
that and what's the project name.
This could be anything we want we could just say Frank template or template for course or any name you
like.
Rather than that I'm just going to say Frank.
Let's see.
Plus plus console
template I think it's pretty picky about spaces in cities those dashes and it is a console application
that if you leave it as console it'll be in the console group.
I'm actually going to change that to user template and then you can give it a description you want I'll
just say Frank's console template
it says like OK.
And now we've got a new template that's stored.
So if I go back to my workspace and I want to create a new project now we close all this up I'm going
to right click and say new project and now you can go onto your templates and go down to user templates
right here and you should see that one we just created right here.
So we just select that next I'll just say Project 1 select next.
Keep the defaults for the compilers and finish at this point.
You can double click here to make that project the active project and we'll look at the main CGP you
could see it's the main see that we just typed.
Also if you right click on the project and you go out to the settings you can see code completion is
C++ 14 and the global settings have the appropriate compiler flags that we need.
That's it will test this real quick that's run build and execute.
And hello world.
That's it.
So now you've got a project draw set up you can create as many of these as you like tweak the settings
as far as you like.
It's really up to you to decide what you want to do with the project templates but for this course include
IO stream.
Give yourself a man you may or may not want this line right here since you know you've probably got
to get rid of it anyway.
When we start writing other code but at a minimum do something like that when you create a new project
you'll be ready to start coding.